# GDK101 Sensor module for Gamma Radiation

## Description

The [GDK101 by FTLAB](http://allsmartlab.com/eng/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2017/01/GDK101datasheet_v1.6.pdf) is a radiation detector using PIN diodes as detection media.
The sensitivity is reported as 12 cpm per µSv/h in a range from 0.01 - 99.99 µSv/h.

The device comes with an analog output to directly connect an oscilloscope, and also 
contains a microprocessor for data analysis and digital output via  I²C and UART
of the measured number of counts per minute and a 10-minute sliding average.  
The latest version of the device is compatible with 3.3 V I²C signals. 

## Requirements

The *PhyPiDAQ* implementation directly uses the I²C interface to initialize and read
the sensor. Output is the counting rate per minute on channel one and, optionally,
 the sliding average over 10 minutes on the second channel. 


## Experience

The sensor is easy to set-up and handle, even by unexperienced high-school or undergraduate students. The counting rate is rather low, compared to a Geiger
Counter with typically 20 cpm per µSv/h, or even the brand-new CsJ(Tl)-decector
Radiacode 102 with several hundred cpm per µSv/h. The advantage is the relatively
low price and the easy operation without the need for a high-voltage supply. 
 
As an application example, the signal of Radon decay products collected on the surface
of  a balloon and the subsequent change in rate due to production and decay of 
daughter nuclei can be convincingly demonstrated. 

